Hello my friends and welcome back to the final step of this implementation of the upper confidence bound
algorithm.
We actually already implemented the algorithm itself in this cell implementing UCB and now we can just
you know sit comfortably in our chair and visualize the results because indeed implementing this final
set will be super easy.
We just have to plot a histogram and make a nice title to the chart and also some labels for the x axis
and the y axis.
So let's do this let's create a new code cell here.
I'm gonna scroll down a bit.
All right.
And there we go.
Let's plot that histogram.
So just to make sure we all understand this histogram will plot for each of the add.
Well the number of times it was selected.
So on the x axis we will have the different adds you know from not one to 10 but you know zero to nine
because we work with indexes and they start from zero.
And on the y axis will have the number of times each of these add was selected.
All right.
So the good news now is that you know we already have the tool we need to plot such a histogram which
is made plotted by plot.
And for this we gave a shortcut named Pete LTE.
So that's what we're going to start with P L T going mentality that by blood and from which we're going
to call a specific function from this bipolar module which is the Hist function and as you might guess
well this his function can plot any histogram.
All right.
So let's add some parenthesis and now according to you what do we have to plot in this hist function.
Well that's actually easy.
You know if we scroll down here you can see the parameters the only parameters that will need is this
one X and this is supposed to be you know either an array or a sequence of arrays.
Basically it's going to be a list of values which will be the values on the y axis of the Instagram.
Right.
And therefore what we simply need to input here in our histogram is you know this variable at selected
which would create it which contains indeed the sequence of add that were selected over the round.
So keep in mind at selected is a list of 10000 elements where each element is the add that was selected
at a particular round.
You know the end element of this at selected list is the add that was selected at random you know shown
to the user.
All right.
And this is exactly what it's supposed to be the input of this hist function.
So let's just paste that inside and there we go.
Basically here the job is done.
This will plot the histogram.
However of course we want to make it nice and to make it nice.
Well you know we will just add a title to this plot and we will choose you know in quotes this title
to be histogram of ad selections.
All right then we're going to add a nice label to the x axis and the function for this remember is X
label.
Same as the plot function actually.
So X label and in parentheses well we'll give in quote a nice label to the x axis.
And since the x axis corresponds to the different ad you know from 0 to 9 because of the Python indexes
Well we'll set this X label as at.
Okay then same for the Y label and in parentheses we will enter in quotes.
Well this time.
Well let's make it very clear you know let's just input number of times each ad was selected.
All right so that it is 100 percent clear.
And finally remember we have to end with P. LTE that show to display the graph in the output of the
notebook.
Okay.
So we're done.
Do you understand what is expected is here right in the histogram.
It is expected you know if the UCB algorithm was powerful it is expected that one of the ad was selected
the most you know was selected way more than the others because the goal of the UCB algorithm is to
quickly you know is to as fast as possible identify the ad that has the highest CAGR and once it is
identified well only this ad will be selected.
OK.
So we should see one ad that was selected way more than the others.
In other words we should see one bar in the histogram that is way higher than the others.
Are you ready.
Let's play this cell.
And there we go.
We got what we want.
Indeed this ad of index for here meaning the ad number five was clearly the ad selected the most therefore
was clearly the ad with the highest click through rate.
And in terms of our business case study it corresponds indeed to the ad that is the most attractive
meaning the ad that has the most beautiful image of that car that will sell the most to the user as
a future customers.
OK.
So good job.
The UCB algorithm did a very up here however remember that you know the girl is in fact to you know
identify this ad as fast as possible you know in a minimum number of rounds and therefore what we should
experiment right now.
You know it's not quite over.
We should experiment to see and actually how many rounds the UCB algorithm was able to identify this
ad with the highest city are and the way to check this is by you know changing that value.
And here because this algorithm was run with 10000 rounds.
But what if we put instead you know 5000 rounds you know we would like to see if the UCB is still able
to identify that ad of index for you know with the high city or in 5000 rounds.
So that's exactly what we're going to check now.
But you know rerun everything and the way to do this is by clicking run time here and then restart and
run.
And we're going to see if with 5000 rounds well at UCB algorithm is also able to quickly figure out
the best ad and yes very good.
Even with 5000 rounds you know with 5000 users the UCB was able to identify the ad with the highest
CAGR.
And now let's make it even more challenging to the UCB.
Let's replace 5000 here by 1000 and let's click runtime again and restart and run.
Oh and let's see if with only 1000 rounds while the UCB is able to.
Wow.
OK.
So still it was still able to do it you know identifying the ad with the high CGI which is still of
course ad of the next four but quite just you know.
So now I of course want to try with 500 rounds.
Right.
We're going to replace that 1000 here by 500 then rerun everything by clicking restart and run out.
And now let's see.
But I'm not sure it.
Let's see if it is still able to identify that ad with the high CGI.
And that's what I'm talking about you know 500 rounds is not enough for the UCB algorithm to identify
that best at you know that ad with the highest CAGR because indeed the ad with the high city or is clearly
at number four.
But in 500 round the UCB identified the best ad as ad of index 7 so 500 is not enough.
And so now it will be very interesting to see with the Thompson sampling algorithm if you know it can
beat the UCB algorithm in the sense that it can find this out of index for with the highest city are
in 500 rounds because they used to be can clearly find it in 1000 rounds.
That's for sure but not in 500 rounds.
So we're going to see with Thompson sampling algorithm if this one is able to find that best ad you
know because we're going to work on the same data set of course if it is going to identify the best
ad of index four in 500 rounds and if yes we will even try lower numbers of rounds.
So I can't wait to now implement Thompson something with you we will work on the exact same data set.
So we will just compare.
So let's do this in the next section.
And until then enjoy machine learning.